:title: elbe v2.0 released
:excerpt: including pbuilder and stretch support
:author: Manuel Traut

==================
elbe v2.0 released
==================


All features of elbe-1.x are still available. The XML format is
compatible. Additional the following features are added:

The following new features can be used for targets:

-  stretch target support

-  arm64/aarch64 support

-  extended partitions support for msdoshd

-  support xmls with xincludes, see e.g.
   `examples/x86_32-pc-hdimg-with-include-development.xml <https://github.com/Linutronix/elbe/blob/devel/elbe-2.0/examples/x86_32-pc-hdimg-with-include-development.xml>`__

-  comments are now longer removed from elbe xml files, if
   e.g. chg_archive is called

The pbuilder is able to build binary debian packages from debian source
packages for a certain project and host them in a debian repo:

-  more information about the pbuilder support are in the man-page
   :doc:`elbe:elbe-pbuilder`.
   There is also an example
   `examples/armhf-ti-beaglebone-black.xml <https://github.com/Linutronix/elbe/blob/devel/elbe-2.0/examples/armhf-ti-beaglebone-black.xml>`__
   that shows howto trigger pbuilder jobs during image generation.

-  the packages build by pbuilder are hosted in a project local debian
   repo. There are elbe commands to e.g. copy the repo to the host pc.
   The commands are explained in the :doc:`elbe:elbe-prjrepo`.
   man page.

*elbe debianize* helps generating debian source packages for common
source trees like the linux kernel:

-  elbe debianize currently supports packaging the linux kernel and the
   barebox bootloader. More infos can be found in the man page
   :doc:`elbe:elbe-pbuilder`.

Other user visible changes are:

-  the progress of an image or pbuilder run is now displayed on the host
   pc

-  it is posible to blacklist packages that they are not added to the
   sysroot. More infos about this feature are in the commit message of
   the according `git
   commit <https://github.com/Linutronix/elbe/commit/0d40931e2bd3c2f0e129749aa16c5ef17b0fa968>`__
   The :doc:`elbe:article-elbe-schema-reference` describes the syntax.

-  we now generate an :doc:`Index <../docs>` for multiple versions of elbe.

-  there are systemd service files for all elbe daemons

The Debian packages for elbe 2.x are available from linutronix. Add sth.
like this to your sources.list:

::

   deb http://debian.linutronix.de/elbe stretch main
   deb-src http://debian.linutronix.de/elbe stretch main

The new development branch on github is devel/elbe-3.0. To retrieve
Debian packages for the development version of elbe add sth. like this
to your sources.list:

::

   deb http://debian.linutronix.de/elbe-testing stretch main
   deb-src http://debian.linutronix.de/elbe-testing stretch main
