:title: ELBE 12.5 release
:excerpt: bugfixes and features
:author: Volker Haspel

=================
ELBE 12.5 release
=================


Debian packages for “ELBE 12.5” are available from linutronix. Add sth.
like this to your sources.list:

::

   deb http://debian.linutronix.de/elbe buster main

Processing License Files
========================

There are now more than one License File. Packages which are not
installed on the target will not show up in licence-target.xml.

pbuilder speedup
================

Pbuilder now supports cross builds, and ccache.

Ubuntu
======

Building ubuntu targets is now supported.

Testing
=======

Some parts of the new unittesting are merged.

Full changelog
==============

-  Fix building sdk for amd64
-  Add cross build support to pbuilder.
-  Add ccache support to pbuilder.
-  Limited finetuning support for initvm.
-  First part of the elbe test suite

   -  doctests for filesystem
   -  doctests for shellhelper
   -  pylint as unittest

-  schema: Add possibility to add multiple binary blobs
-  debianize: kernel: Add lzop build dependency
-  initvmaction: Add sync action
-  Include Source Packages for Built-Using: Entries into src-cdrom.
-  src-cdrom now sorts packages in components for sysroot, host-sysroot,
   target, etc.
-  Source packages only show up in target component if files from the
   package are contained in the target.
-  Python3 is now used on the host side. (initvm is still waiting for
   python3-spyne)
-  The preprocessor now handles proxy setup.
-  initvm: create: Add COW logic for initvm
-  initvmaction: Fix soap host (Fixes: #271)
-  finetuning: Add command action in image context
-  elbeproject: cope with incremental build without initvm node
-  Fix bin-cdrom.iso signature validation in initvm-create (Fixes: #260)
-  hdimg: Add support for specifying the first partition offset
-  Basic Support for building ubuntu targets.
