:title: ELBE 12.0 release
:excerpt: Logging, initvm to Buster, Versioning, ..
:author: Volker Haspel

======================
ELBE 12.0 (2019-10-02)
======================


ELBE 12.0 is released. The XML format is compatible.

Debian packages for “ELBE 12.0” are available from linutronix. Add sth.
like this to your sources.list:

::

   deb http://debian.linutronix.de/elbe buster main

Versioning Schema
=================

The last ELBE versions had a lot of minor bug fixes. As result, the
version numbers increased very fast. Therefore we switch to a version
schema with major and minor numbers.

New Logging
===========

The logging and error handling code is completely new. The logging
output is improved and a build failure now results in error return
codes, and no files will be downloaded. This is especially the case for
finetuning errors which have been ignored before.

INITVM Version Buster
=====================

The initvm is now using Debian 10 (Buster)

Limit src-cdrom size
====================

The src-cdrom can be split up in multiple cd-roms. This can be
configured in the xml file.

Example:

::

   <src-cdrom>
       <size>640M</size>
       <src-opts>
           <publisher>Linutronix</publisher>
       </src-opts>
   </src-cdrom>

Customize src-cdrom
===================

It is possible to add custom specific files to the src-cdrom. This can
be done with ‘archivedir’ tags in the ‘src-cdrom’ section.

Repository Key in xml file
==========================

The key of a repository is now stored in the ELBE xml file using the tag
‘raw-key’. The old key tags are replaced by the preprocessor now.

An example of the usage of ‘raw-key’, can be found at:
examples/includes/devel/mirrors.xml
