elbe 15.0a4.dev0 (2024-07-05)
=============================

Features
--------

- A *preview* of a cylonedx-sbom generator is provided, which generates
  Software Bill of Materials from ELBE builds.
- A log of the initvm installation is kept to help analyzing issues.
  Shell-control characters are not printed anymore.
- A new package `elbevalidate` is provided to validate the contents of created images.
  It is used in the testsuite of elbe itself, too.
- F2FS can be used.
- Implement `elbe initvm destroy`.
- Packages can now be pinned more flexibly.
  See `release-archive`, `release-component`, `release-label`, `release-name`,
  `release-origin` and `release-version` in the schema documentation.
- The initvm can be created without libvirt, using only QEMU. Use `elbe initvm create --qemu`.
- The initvm can now be built from HTTPS repositories.
- The options `--nested` and `--devel` are now automatically detected and don't need to be specified anymore.


Bugfixes
--------

- (Nearly) all lintian errors about the Debian package have been fixed.
- Internally many cleanups have been performed.
- Make sure /var/cache/elbe exists for updated.
- The existing unittests of ELBE where cleaned up and bit-rot issues are fixes.
- The initvm can now also work with the default `/home` permissions on Debian bookworm.
- `/etc/resolv.conf` from the initvm is not leaked anymore into the image.
  Finetuning can also modify `/etc/resolv.conf` properly.


Improved Documentation
----------------------

- The build of the documentation is simplified greatly.
  Only Sphinx is necessary now.
- The website is now maintained as part of the ELBE source tree and built with Sphinx.


Deprecations and Removals
-------------------------

- Drop `$ELBE_MIRROR_SED` support.
- Drop `elbe control shutdown_initvm`. Use `elbe initvm stop` instead.
- Drop `install_elbe_version`.
- Drop non-functional `$ELBE_PBUILDER_JOBS` configuration variable.
- Remove cherrypy depdendency.
